= Introduction

Control is the user management system for the Bristol SU Portal. The
complexity of the user management structure was borne from the
student-led society hierarchical structure. A student-led society is
called a group. A group has many members, which are users. Additionally,
a group has many roles, which may be occupied by a number of users. In
reality, this allows us to assign users to committee roles (for example,
a President, Secretary, Treasurer etc), as well as allow users to be
members of groups.

When worded in this way, the group system seems very restrictive for
non-unions or non-group services. However, there is no requirement that
says a group must be a student-led society. For example, a group may be
a department in an office. Each individual could have a different role,
or some individuals may be members and a hierarchical structure can be
built above them (e.g. line manager, budget holder etc). Similarly, a
group could represent a house for a letting agent. Tenants would be
'members' of the group, and the agent responsible for the house could
hold a role in the group.

In this way, a huge amount of additional flexibility and customization
can be achieved over a simple user model. Activities can be made open to
only those in a role, or a role with a specific position. Services can
be set up to require different steps to be completed by different
people, which would not be as achievable or scalable than a simple user
model.

The following diagram shows the relationships between Users, Groups and
Roles.

image::model-relations.png[]

The relationship between Users, Groups and
Roles.

Each of these models can also be tagged. A tag is a simple model with a
name and a reference. For example, we may want to tag a group with the
'High Risk' tag, to represent a high financial risk. In this way, we can
make an annual budget mandatory for any high risk groups. However, there
could be a situation where we have another 'High Risk' tag, meaning a
group regularly does high risk activities. Obviously we need to separate
out these tags so no confusion occurs. To do this, we use tag
categories. These are parent tags, which hold many child tags which are
then applied to a model. For example, we could create a 'Financial Risk'
category and a 'Physical risk' category, and assign them to the correct
tags to reduce confusion.

We also need a human-friendly way of referencing the tags. Instead of
saying 'High Financial Risk', which will only work for some tags, or
'High Risk with a category of Financial Risk', we say
'financial_risk.high' (Financial Risk 'dot' High). This structure comes
from a 'reference' of both the category and tag. The reference must be
unique, and is thought of as a unique ID. Since both the parent and
child have a different reference, we join the references with a dot to
create the unique tag reference. In this way, we can reference both high
risk tags as

'financial_risk.high'

'physical_risk.high'

Another important part of the user management structure is the idea of a
'Data Provider'. Many unions and other companies have a database of user
information, or for data protection reasons outsource the storing of
data to a third party. The portal therefore provides a structure to
allow integration with these providers, without enforcing their use. The
four base models (User, Group, Role and Position) all hold very little
information. In fact, they only hold relations to one another and a data
provider ID. This means that, in the case of a data breach, there is no
identifiable data held in the platform. In order to get the identifiable
information for use, we call the data() function on any model. This will
return a second model, whose purpose is to store information such as
names, emails, dates of birth etc.

Using this method provides no disadvantage for data stored in the
database, but allows for external data providers to be slotted into
place and used to retrieve the data.
